_includes/index.md, before:

![hackitmac](img/hackitmac.jpg)
So with the recent interest in hackathons and HackItMac. Here's a hackathon guide.

If you have questions/suggestions email us at <hello@hackitmac.com>. Don't worry we're friendly!

##Hackathon FAQs
**Will there be accommodations?**  
No, but the hackathon will be a 24hr or 36hr event meaning the venue will be open and you can sleep anywhere. Bring a sleeping bag if you want.

**Is it really free?**  
Yes completely free. Travel, food, free swag all covered!

**Do I need to have experience programming?**  
Definitely not. Hackathon are a great experience and gives you a chance to see what's possible with technology. A suggestion is to join non-competitive teams. Going with friends or people who are just looking to learn. In the meantime you can follow this guide. We'll have workshops soon.

**What to bring!**

+ Passport (if we're going to the states, otherwise not needed)
  + You might need a visa depending on your citizenship (if you're not canadian). 
+ Sleeping Bag
+ Extra clothes
+ Laptop and charger
+ Cash and credit card (preferably credit card since canadian cash isn't accepted in the states)
+ Student ID (These are student hackathons so they maybe check if you're actually a student)

#Resources

Lists resources for different technologies. Make this your go to resource. It lists more resources than this page.
[http://adicu.com/resources](http://adicu.com/resources)

###Web
If you are looking up something about HTML/CSS use [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) instead of [http://www.w3schools.com/](http://www.w3schools.com/). W3schools can be outdated and has a lower quality of documentation. Reasons [http://www.w3fools.com/](http://www.w3fools.com/)

This can be done simply by adding `mdn` at the end of your searches. Ex. search `div mdn` instead of `div`. First link will always be Mozilla Developer Network.

**Just go on**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/). Explore around.

**Mozilla Developer Network has a great Web Developer guide section**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide)

**As well as a large tutorial list**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials)

####HTML
Dictates the structure and contents of every web page on the internet. Lets you put text and images on a web page; if you want to make a web site, start here.

[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
The Mozilla Developer Network page on HTML. They have tutorials and extensive documentation for HTML.

####CSS
The code that styles HTML: dictates look, layout, and general presentation. Once you've laid out your content using HTML, use CSS to make it look good.

[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
The Mozilla Developer Network page on CSS. They have tutorials and extensive documentation for CSS.

[Learn CSS Layout](http://learnlayout.com/)
Defining how elements are position can be quite painful. But this tutorial walks you through it in concise steps.

[The Magic of CSS](http://adamschwartz.co/magic-of-css/)
An in depth tutorial on various CSS topics.

####Javascript
The programming language of the web. If you want your web site/app to move, change, or communicate, learn JavaScript.

[Free javascript books](http://jsbooks.revolunet.com/)

###GIT
Git is a Version Control System (VCS), which lets you track changes to code over time and collaborate with others. A popular platform that lets you upload git repositories and collaborate on software projects is [github](https://github.com)

[Git pocket guide](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000561)
A free to read online book. A quick reference. And a way to just get started fast.

###Command line
[CONQUERING THE COMMAND LINE](http://conqueringthecommandline.com/)
Learn to master and conquer the most valuable and useful command line tools for Unix and Linux based systems.

###Recommanded path for learning how to make a website

Start with [http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web). Interactive lessons to teach you HTML & CSS.

Alternatively try [https://dash.generalassemb.ly/](https://dash.generalassemb.ly/). It's also interactive lessons to learn HTML & CSS, but with more focus on projects. If you feel you need more a book or reference. Look at the resource section and pick one. Just so you don't get overwhelmed I would recommend starting with 

After that try your hand at making your personal portfolio or an about me site. You can check out the different resources and see which ones you like or don't like.

Namecheap is also offering free domain names for students to kickstart their online presence. Register with your mcmaster email. What are you waiting for, make that website you always wanted!

![namecheap free domain](img/namecheap_free_domain.png)
[https://www.nc.me/](https://www.nc.me/)

###Transitioning from a website to a web app
Web application are web pages that are interactive and often have similar functionality to applications on your desktop. Examples of web applications are google docs, facebook, twitter, tumblr.

You'll need to learn javascript. The scripting language of the web. It allows you to do things like . Start with [http://eloquentjavascript.net/](http://eloquentjavascript.net/).

Commit message:

add who can come question

_includes/index.md, after:

![hackitmac](img/hackitmac.jpg)
So with the recent interest in hackathons and HackItMac. Here's a hackathon guide.

If you have questions/suggestions email us at <hello@hackitmac.com>. Don't worry we're friendly!

##Hackathon FAQs
**Will there be accommodations?**  
No, but the hackathon will be a 24hr or 36hr event meaning the venue will be open and you can sleep anywhere. Bring a sleeping bag if you want.

**Who can come to these events?**
Depends on the hackathon. If you're an undergraduate student, you're good to go.
Graduate students might be allowed for some hackathon. Be sure to check their faq page.
Example: [http://hackthenorth.com/faq](http://hackthenorth.com/faq)
Do email them, sometimes they make exceptions for graduate students. If they don't specify, just ask!

**Is it really free?**  
Yes completely free. Travel, food, free swag all covered!

**Do I need to have experience programming?**  
Definitely not. Hackathon are a great experience and gives you a chance to see what's possible with technology. A suggestion is to join non-competitive teams. Going with friends or people who are just looking to learn. In the meantime you can follow this guide. We'll have workshops soon.

**What to bring!**

+ Passport (if we're going to the states, otherwise not needed)
  + You might need a visa depending on your citizenship (if you're not canadian). 
+ Sleeping Bag
+ Extra clothes
+ Laptop and charger
+ Cash and credit card (preferably credit card since canadian cash isn't accepted in the states)
+ Student ID (These are student hackathons so they might check if you're actually a student)

#Resources

Lists resources for different technologies. Make this your go to resource. It lists more resources than this page.
[http://adicu.com/resources](http://adicu.com/resources)

###Web
If you are looking up something about HTML/CSS use [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) instead of [http://www.w3schools.com/](http://www.w3schools.com/). W3schools can be outdated and has a lower quality of documentation. Reasons [http://www.w3fools.com/](http://www.w3fools.com/)

This can be done simply by adding `mdn` at the end of your searches. Ex. search `div mdn` instead of `div`. First link will always be Mozilla Developer Network.

**Just go on**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/). Explore around.

**Mozilla Developer Network has a great Web Developer guide section**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide)

**As well as a large tutorial list**  
[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials)

####HTML
Dictates the structure and contents of every web page on the internet. Lets you put text and images on a web page; if you want to make a web site, start here.

[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
The Mozilla Developer Network page on HTML. They have tutorials and extensive documentation for HTML.

####CSS
The code that styles HTML: dictates look, layout, and general presentation. Once you've laid out your content using HTML, use CSS to make it look good.

[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
The Mozilla Developer Network page on CSS. They have tutorials and extensive documentation for CSS.

[Learn CSS Layout](http://learnlayout.com/)
Defining how elements are position can be quite painful. But this tutorial walks you through it in concise steps.

[The Magic of CSS](http://adamschwartz.co/magic-of-css/)
An in depth tutorial on various CSS topics.

####Javascript
The programming language of the web. If you want your web site/app to move, change, or communicate, learn JavaScript.

[Free javascript books](http://jsbooks.revolunet.com/)

###GIT
Git is a Version Control System (VCS), which lets you track changes to code over time and collaborate with others. A popular platform that lets you upload git repositories and collaborate on software projects is [github](https://github.com)

[Git pocket guide](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000561)
A free to read online book. A quick reference. And a way to just get started fast.

###Command line
[CONQUERING THE COMMAND LINE](http://conqueringthecommandline.com/)
Learn to master and conquer the most valuable and useful command line tools for Unix and Linux based systems.

###Recommanded path for learning how to make a website

Start with [http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/web). Interactive lessons to teach you HTML & CSS.

Alternatively try [https://dash.generalassemb.ly/](https://dash.generalassemb.ly/). It's also interactive lessons to learn HTML & CSS, but with more focus on projects. If you feel you need more a book or reference. Look at the resource section and pick one. Just so you don't get overwhelmed I would recommend starting with 

After that try your hand at making your personal portfolio or an about me site. You can check out the different resources and see which ones you like or don't like.

Namecheap is also offering free domain names for students to kickstart their online presence. Register with your mcmaster email. What are you waiting for, make that website you always wanted!

![namecheap free domain](img/namecheap_free_domain.png)
[https://www.nc.me/](https://www.nc.me/)

###Transitioning from a website to a web app
Web application are web pages that are interactive and often have similar functionality to applications on your desktop. Examples of web applications are google docs, facebook, twitter, tumblr.

You'll need to learn javascript. The scripting language of the web. It allows you to do things like . Start with [http://eloquentjavascript.net/](http://eloquentjavascript.net/).
